---
title: Executive Board Meeting Minutes – April 3, 2022
summary: Minutes for the April 3, 2022 Executive Board Meeting.
date: 2022-04-03T20:00:00-04:00
bookSearchExclude: true
images:
- share/pta.png
---

## Recent Successes:
- Read-a-Thon: raised around $20,000! Clare to distribute awards/prizes and coordinate administrative staff for sumo.
- Teacher Appreciation Coffee and School Supply Buffet was very well received by staff and many of them expressed appreciation at Picture Day.
- Getting Garden ready for Spring Planting.

## Teacher Appreciation Week: May 2 - May 6
- Additional funding may be needed (Budget for this event in 2019 was $3500); will bring this to a vote at April 19 meeting.
- Ashley received a quote for Cinco de Mayo Lunch for about $800 (best quote was from Guapos).
- Ashley has quotes from spirit gear vendors, and will set up an order form for teachers to complete with their size preference.
- Other ideas include candy, yoga, apple cookies, and encouragement notes.

## International Night Plans: Friday May 13, 2022, 6 pm to 8 pm
- Jackie to clarify from Ms. Jondahl any volunteer limitations if the event is indoors; Jackie to clarify with Ms. Bronco if there is the ability/desire to offer transportation to families.
- Sharon to send a picture of the mascot costume to Lauren’s mother to see if a low-cost repair can be made.
- Meredith, Sharon to coordinate performance groups, food vouchers, food trucks, and other ideas for International Night.

## Garden Update
- Donation of wood chips and stumps to create learning spaces in the garden.
- The Eco Action students are in the process of selecting a storage shed for the garden. Items donated include wheelbarrows and garden tools.
- Garden Bench in honor of Andrew Vitols has been ordered and should arrive in late April. It will be free-standing per Mr. Horak’s request so it can be moved at a later date if needed. Jackie and Sara to talk to Fairlington 5k and Lizzie Lyons to discuss dedication. 

## Spirit Wear
- Table this whole discussion (except for shirts for Teacher Appreciation) until the next board comes on.
- Discussion of getting up a table at the Fairlington Farmers Market to sell spirit wear and recruit volunteers was inconclusive. Sara to contact Fairlington Farmers Market. 

## Audit Committee Formation 
- Dan Burd to coordinate this committee and ask for volunteers at upcoming meeting.

## Fundraising 
- Jackie is meeting with Ellie Splan to discuss 5th grade promotion on Monday afternoon. Will work on this the first 2 weeks after spring break with parents who volunteered to help with Lovelines/yearbooks. Order is due in late April/early May.
- Clare to report at next PTA meeting re: Boon Supply fundraiser.

## Bilingual Book Library dedicated to Ms. Joanna Uyeda
- Ken, Jackie, and Sara to coordinate this effort and confer with Ms. Fatorous post book fair. Book Fair is April 25-29. 

## Monthly rising kindergarten playdates to welcome new Abingdon families and/or recruit for the PTA. 
- Option School lottery hasn’t been held, deadline to accept/decline is May 13 to accept or decline. To coordinate this effort later in the school year.

## Current Priorities
1. New Board for the 2022-2023 SY (Nominating Committee meets April 6)
1. International Night - May 13
1. Book Fair - April 25-April 29 (Ms. Fatorous has specifically asked for support this year and has three parent volunteers running the event: Tina Kelly, Maureen Harlow, and Emily Lyon). Signup genius is forthcoming.
1. Teacher/Staff Appreciation Week - May 2-May 6
1. 5th Grade Promotion/Yearbooks (Gunston Graduation is morning of May 15, could be a ceremony that afternoon or Thursday).

## Future Ideas
1. Book mobile READ (Read Early and Daily)
1. SOL chalk the sidewalks in support of the students.