---
title: Executive Board Meeting Minutes â€” October 25, 2022
summary: Minutes for the October 25, 2022 Executive Board Meeting.
date: 2022-10-25T20:00:00-04:00
bookSearchExclude: true
images:
    - share/pta.png
draft: true
---

## Call to Order

The virtual meeting was called to order at 8:00pm. Executive Board members in attendance:
- Sharon Burd, President
- Ken Venable, VP for Educational Programs
- Clare Rosenberger, VP for Fundraising
- Meredith Greene, VP for Events
- Dan Burd, Secretary
- David Horak, Principal

## Boundary Changes
*David Horak*

Mr. Horak said that there would not be a boundary change process this year nor any boundary changes for next school year.

## Outdoor Lunch
*David Horak*

Sharon asked whether there were any needs the PTA could help address that would make outdoor lunches possible, such as additional tables. Mr. Horak responded that it's not an issue of tables, but rather a staffing issue. APS provided staffing for ten extra lunch attendants last year. Most lunches are concurrent with recess, which has 130 students on the playground - as a result, an issue he sees is that students will scarf down their food and run to play. Sharon asked whether the school would welcome more picnic tables, and Mr. Horak said yes, that they're great for the community and for large events like International Night.

## Field Trips
*David Horak*

Mr. Horak said that a man named John Foti approached Abingdon last year who wanted to fund Title I schools alongside some colleagues from his work. He wanted the donated money to be used for something that kids wouldn't otherwise have access to. Mr. Horak believes that a field trip to Jamestown would be a good fit for this. (Most schools use it for enrichment, and Mr. Horak said we could use some leftover funds for scholarships.) Mr. Horak talked to Ms. Kooiman, the 4th grade team lead, who has a date in mind - March 14. (The early dismissal the following day would help everyone muddle through when they are tired from the previous day.) She looked at prices for visiting the Jamestown settlement, and it's about $15 or $20 without the bus costs. The full price might be $70. People would pay full price or nothing. Unfortunately, no one is around who planned it last time. Mr. Horak will send an email to Mr. Foti, Ms. Kooiman, and Sharon to get started on planning.

## School Talk

Mr. Horak has a folder on a shared drive internal to APS for information to be sent out on School Talk. If the PTA would like to share information via School Talk, they can send it to Ms. Tyson who has access to the shared folder.

---

Kay also has a lot of money so now we have too much

5th grade swimming pool field trip? Apparently that's a thing. APS put the kibash on it because there was no instructional value

Clare: please ask your staff if they have field trip ideas

Maybe decorate windows? Sell windows? Building on Trunk or Treat each year. Pumpkins this year. APS transportation to pick up kids to bring them to school for trunk or treat? Have to fill out forms, have chaperones, older siblings... maybe I talked to the wrong person. Carlin Springs has provided transportation to families. Maybe a private bus company?

Lots of candy for AP's.

Food pantry is going well. Seeing what is being eaten.

Mice - I've heard from other families. we're not out of line with what other schools are experiencing. So we have to take care of the problem. I think pest control is coming tomorrow.

One second grade teacher was asking for snack donations. Some teachers aren't distributing snacks. Maybe have administrators reach out to their staff to make sure they understand the program and why we have it. Also the CT leads. Some teachers give it to them on their way out of school.

Farmer's Market - we have a table. We'll talk about the garden and the snack pantry to try to get extra hands. Also trying to get money. Also Harris Teeter signup. And Chipotle spirit night, social media promotion.

We have a new SEPTA liaison.

Reflections - 32 submissions

Extended Day - affects 6 Abingdon staff health insurance and sick leave. Going to lobby the superintendent and school board. It's all about budget - what are they budgeting? Meredith - we have to be bipartisan, don't know if we should get involved as a PTA. Ashley - maybe work with CCPTA if there is a position statement that comes out, we can sign on or not.

Movie Night - popcorn is free? Met up with Ms. Upshur, what are your expectations? Ms. Upshur never emailed her back except to say that there was a meeting in twenty minutes. We will try to do it for November 4. 

Meetings - people want to know how to volunteer and support, they were frustrated because the meeting ran long. Have people from the school, maybe have them after PTA business. Meeting is a way to put an exclamation point on stuff that goes home in Tuesday folder.

Trunk or Treat - 23 cars. We'd love to have more but it's still going to be fun and a nice day.

Reschedule next meeting to November 29

Grant requests 1-3 passed. 4 is tabled indefinitely due to other funding sources.

No stop sign cameras in VA, only in DC. Kiss & Ride is also terrible.

Adjourned at 9:43