---
title: Executive Board Meeting Minutes — January 18, 2022
summary: Minutes for the January 18, 2022 Executive Board Meeting.
date: 2022-01-18T20:00:00-05:00
bookSearchExclude: true
images: ["share/pta.png"]
booktoc: true
---

## Call to Order

The meeting was called to order at 8:00pm.

Executive Board members in attendance:
- Jackie Winkelvoss, PTA President
- Christian Lindstrom, PTA Treasurer
- Sara Carr, PTA Secretary

Members in attendance:
- Sharon Burd
- Dan Burd
- Meredith Greene
- Rachel Resau

## Mr. Horak's Comments

- Mr. Horak requested continued teacher appreciation events and gestures in support of teachers and staff.
- Mr. Horak reported that APS principals are meeting regularly about masking issues.
- Abingdon is requesting funding from the PTA for 2 outdoor sheds to store playground equipment, Mr. Horak will follow up with dimensions and details.
- Winter Wonderland approved for Saturday, February 12, pending availability of vendors.
- Continued support of mask drive, coat drive, and in particular, need for gloves for students. Also requested more playground equipment.
- Mr. Horak had a recent visit from School Board Liaison Christina Diaz-Torres

## Upcoming events

- Lunar New Year/Abingdon Garden cleanup Saturday, January 29 10am-12pm
- PTA Executive Board meeting Sunday, January 30 8pm
- PTA Membership meeting Tuesday, February 8 6:30pm
- Winter Wonderland Saturday, February 12 TBD
- International Night Spring TBD
- Touch a truck TBD

## Action items	
- Distribute collected coats, gloves, hats (Sharon)
- Update fliers and social media blurbs to submit for posting (Sharon, Meredith)
- Continued work and communication on school garden (Sharon)
- Mask survey of teachers (Rachael)
- Email teachers (all)
- Distribution of mask donations to school (Sharon-TBD) 
- Teacher Appreciation committee to convene and plan future events-both weekly/consistent and special events (Ashley & Meredith)
- Update website and submission of IRS forms (Christian, Dan)
- Research feasibility of hosting a vaccination clinic for Abingdon and neighboring schools (Jackie)
- Update Amazon wishlist for the school (Sara & Jackie)
- Invite Mr. Horak, counseling staff and Ms. Diaz-Torres to next PTA meeting (Jackie)

## Vote on adoption of Conflict of Interest
Motion approved

## Upcoming PTA Meeting Agenda
- Present results of PTA survey
- Townhall with the principals/Ms. Diaz-Torres TBD
- Presentation on Responsive Classroom

