---
title: General Membership Meeting Minutes — December 6, 2023
summary: Minutes for the December 6, 2023 General Membership Meeting.
date: 2023-12-06T18:30:00-05:00
images: ["share/pta.png"]
booktoc: true
---

## Call to Order

The zoom meeting was called to order at 6:30pm. Executive Board members in attendance:

- James Harlow, President
- Tina Kelly, VP for Educational Programs
- Sara Kirschner, VP for Community Relations
- Megan Miller, VP for Fundraising
- Maggie Bush, VP for Communications
- Meredith Greene, VP for Events
- David DeBoer, Treasurer
- Erin Cassidy, Secretary
- David Horak, Principal

The Board approved the Nov 2 Executive Board Mins. 

## Financial Update
*David DeBoer*

39,791- down a little bit for the year. Big expense for the yearbooks almost 4000. Net even with all the FR done.

Spending money on the grants now. Spent over 500 on cardinal kids, 400 Odyssey of the mind. Books for Ms Tyson’s class- 120, grant for Mr. Michel recess equipment- 600, Seating for 3rd grade, Ms. Burd’s class. Every grant before the committee has been funded. Still have 3600 left for grants.

First round of ongoing audit with Erica. Seems to be on track. One item is about the cash system. Still haven’t gotten the Kona ice check. Megan will follow up again with Kona Ice.

## Fundraising Update
*Megan Miller*

Raffle/Bingo Night-thinking 6-7:30pm event.6- 7 rounds of BINGO, blackout round, music round, etc different ideas. Will make sure to have an audio system.

In process of ordering tshirts and sweatshirts. Likely have pizza and candy to sell as well.

Nick Mazza-have been in contact with local realtor. Possibly will sponsor the event and be the bingo caller. Might fund pizza or some of the prizes. Also mentioned to them about Winter Wonderland/Ice Skating night.

Drafting a hand out to give to local businesses to give donations for prizes for winners of bingo and raffle prizes.

Kay Houghton/realtor-could be a good person to reach out to for sponsorship/donating items etc.

Perhaps have teachers donating a “day with the teacher” for raffle prizes.

## Staff Appreciation Update

Dec 20 event-handing out fun holiday items/goodies to teachers/staff. Ashley will connect with Trenia to coordinate a good time.

## Community Relations Update
*Sara Kirschner* 

MLK Day Service Project/Event-cleaning up grounds around the school, front and back

Has posted on the Fairlington Appreciation Society Page for last minute volunteers at Park Shirlington and has been successful.

Has a thought to bring the Master Gardeners from the South Side of Fairlington to join for the MLK event. James will connect Sara with Guy Land.

## Principal Update
*David Horak*

FYI-Ms. Upshur and he talked about establishing a Science Night. Trying to get outside vendors about the middle of March to come in. March 21 or 22.

Asked about when Multi-cultural night will be. He wants to make sure that we reserve the school. Let’s plan for April 19.

Planning to have a spirit week leading up to Holiday break. Changing the way we do celebrations to be more inclusive.

Notes from Dr. Duran-preliminary budgets are starting to come out soon. Looking like it could be a tighter budget this next year.

Mentioned more items for the playground would be great to look into.

Ms. Upshur wanted to talk about the DEI committee. Email from Trenia re: the Hospitality committee. Workplace Abingdon staff committees- what should the PTA approach be? I don’t think we should be involved in these. We have been getting requests for money.

## Fall Enrichment Update
*Tina Kelly* 

Ms. Fischer wanted to join a PTA meeting to talk about digital safety. Let’s include her for 15 mins at the next general membership meeting on January 18.

Discussed having the January General Membership Meeting as a Zoom.

## Events Update
*Meredith Greene* 

Winter wonderland- Feb 15- 6-7:30 ice skating, NightHawk will start from 5-close. Code word Cardinal and about 100 seats in the back available for our school. 10% of proceeds with the code will go to the school. Should we charge parents $5 to skate and free tickets for the kids? To help keep it from being too crowded is the idea. We had 150 tickets last year and used all of them. Total cost is going to be approximately $100.

## Other items

Dave DeBoer mentioned for Sara that Ms. Dowd said a week from this Saturday we are putting together gifts for families. Looking for volunteers to put together gifts that people donated.

## Adjournment

- Meeting adjourned at 7:40 pm
- Next Board Meeting: Thursday, January 4 at 6:30pm. Location TBD

*/s/ Erin Cassidy, Secretary* 