---
title: Executive Board Meeting Minutes â€” October 5, 2023
summary: Minutes for the October 5, 2023 Executive Board Meeting.
date: 2023-10-05T18:30:00-04:00
bookSearchExclude: true
images: ["share/pta.png"]
booktoc: true
---

## Call to Order

The hybrid in person/zoom meeting (thanks to Dave for hosting) was called to order at 6:30pm Executive Board members in attendance:

- James Harlow, President
- Tina Kelly, VP for Educational Programs
- Sara Kirschner, VP for Community Relations-virtual
- Megan Miller, VP for Fundraising
- Maggie Bush, VP for Communications
- Ashley Farrugia, VP for Staff Appreciation
- Meredith Greene, VP for Events
- David DeBoer, Treasurer
- Erin Cassidy, Secretary- virtual

The board voted to approve the September 19 Executive Board Meeting Minutes.

## Financial Update
*James Harlow and David DeBoer*

Dave said we are at ~140 members to date. He plans to work making sure money from memberships and other fundraisers are allocated correctly. He will get reports for next meeting from Give Backs, Square, buying lunch for a teacher and any others that need allocations.

Side note of the idea to push for grandparents to buy PTA memberships. And also make sure folks are add their Harris Teeter card to support Abingdon.

## Trunk or Treat Update
*Meredith Greene*

Encouraging volunteers to sign up to help with various aspects of the day to make it successful: the need to connect with the Trinia to see if the custodian is available to help with the set up of tables, mark spaces for cars, put the cones out, tables, pumpkin painting. Captain Awesome is scheduled for 2:00pm-2:40pm. Meredith has a list of items to order still.

Note that the Vice Principals will not be going to other neighborhoods during this time to pass out candy.

Looking into the idea of having a 50/50 raffle or another fundraising component. Also, the idea of a photo booth was suggested.

At this time, 14 people were already signed up to have their car decorated.

## Fall Enrichment Update
*Tina Kelly*

Enrichment classes start next week. 179 students were enrolled in fall enrichment. All students on the wait list were accepted and everything is ready to go. There is a new onsite coordinator so hoping all goes well with that. Tina will be on hand week 1. She will get info regarding scholarships.

Discussion of Odyssey of the Mind and if we want to pursue for our school. Principal Horak has given the go ahead and blessing. Grades K-2 would be the primary group and grades 3-5 would be the competitive group. Coaches are needed. Tina submitted registration and is working out the extra details. It could start as early as November.

## Fundraising Update
*Megan Miller*

Spirit Night at Silver Diner will be on Tuesday, October 17. All volunteers are welcomed to help with various parts of the evening. Megan will be working with Sara on the Thanksgiving Food Drive.

Possibly do an angel tree event? The Gift card drive was hard and difficult to get folks to participate. Looking at doing a Bingo night in January.

## Community Relations Update
*Sara Kirschner*

Sara spoke about the field to table grant. Essentially food is bought from local farmers markets to give to families in need in our community. They would be willing to buy the food and bring it to Abingdon and we/our volunteers would bag it up to give out and deliver. Discussed having a food pantry on Wednesdays at a specific time.

## Staff Appreciation Update
*Ashley Farrugia*

There will be a grab and go lunch option for teachers and staff on Thursday of Parent/Teacher conferences since most teachers/staff will be in the school on that day. Other ideas for events through the year were a flavored water bar, bagels from Einstein bagels, and a supply buffet.

## Campus Supply
*James Harlow*

Campus Supply is a local DMV area option instead of EduKit. They organize the kits and deliver them to classes. An example of the difference in pricing:

5th Grade:

EduKit-$96.68

Campus Supply-$71.00

Also, they don't have a deadline months before school starts. They have a deadline much closer to the start of school.

## CCPTA Grant Application
*James Harlow*

James updated the board that we were unfortunately denied for the grant for $3500 for an author visit. The reasons were that they apparently had limited funds.

## Next General Membership Meeting
*James Harlow*

We discussed the next General Membership Meeting that will take place on Thursday, November 16. To keep it in person, we will reach out to Wakefield Students to see if they'd be interested in babysitting during the meeting.

## Adjournment

- Meeting adjourned at 8:25 pm
- Next Board Meeting: Thursday, November 2 at 6:30pm. Location TBD

*/s/ Erin Cassidy, Secretary*