---
title: Executive Board Meeting Minutes — November 2, 2023
summary: Minutes for the November 2, 2023 Executive Board Meeting.
date: 2023-11-02T18:30:00-04:00
bookSearchExclude: true
images: ["share/pta.png"]
booktoc: true
---

## Call to Order

The hybrid in person/zoom meeting was called to order at 6:34pm. Executive Board members in attendance:

- James Harlow, President
- Tina Kelly, VP for Educational Programs
- Sara Kirschner, VP for Community Relations
- Megan Miller, VP for Fundraising
- Maggie Bush, VP for Communications
- Ashley Farrugia, VP for Staff Appreciation
- Meredith Greene, VP for Events
- David DeBoer, Treasurer
- Erin Cassidy, Secretary
- Anne Oliveria-Vice Principal

The board voted to approve the October 5 Executive Board Meeting Minutes.

## Financial Update

*David DeBoer*

Dave said we are currently at $41,000. Recent costs include: $971 for the Parent/Teacher Conferences food. We raised $629 from folks buying a teacher lunch. 

For our fundraising, the actual budget is at $8900. Money raised so far is $5400, and Dave still has about $1000 to cash yet from Silver Diner, Dominos and Kona Ice. 

## Trunk or Treat Update

*Meredith Greene*

Huge success, everyone had a great time; volunteers were very helpful and everything seemed to go off without a hitch! There were no pumpkins left and very little candy left. There is still some candy being sent to Dave's house, so we can utilize the candy for other events throughout the year. Thoughts for next year to maybe pick a different date, the weekend before could be helpful. 

## Fall Enrichment Update

*Tina Kelly*

Classes seem to be going well. Unsure of keeping the cooking class as part of the curriculum next time as it's proved to be quite messy. Tina is working on the winter classes- currently has 3 set for M, T, W, and TR.

Odyssey of the Mind- passed onto coaches now, and seems to be going well. We have 3 primary and 3 competitive teams.

## Fundraising Update

*Megan Miller*

Received the Dominos check, have not yet seen the check from Kona Ice, and Silver Diner check is en route. Looking good for the Bake Sale for Election Day; lots of volunteers have donated time and baked goods.

November ideas-looking for restaurants for good options for a quick and easy FR. Minted and Shutterfly have passive fundraisers that Megan is looking into, especially for around the holidays. 

Looking to have a craft night in December (date unknown?) Bingo in January; looking to have on January 19 with January 26 as a back up in case of bad weather. 

## Community Relations Update

*Sara Kirschner* 

Field to table will have food distribution every other Thursday. The number of families will increase to 41. Wednesday Food Pantry will take place at Park Shirlington with help from neighborhood volunteers. 

## Staff Appreciation Update

*Ashley Farrugia*

Organizing distribution of Thanksgiving cookies to Abingdon staff a few days before Thanksgiving break. Planning supply buffet for early 2024.

## Staff/Student Activities Update

*Dave DeBoer* 

Updated board about funding of grants for Cardinal Mentoring Club; 2d Grade sight words tools; and flexible seat for Ms. Burd's room. Ashley F. and Anne O. discussed communications with PE teachers and APS facilities staff about building a GaGa ball court.

Board voted to appoint Jaime Merriman and Kate Plemons to the Staff/Student Activities Committee. 

## Administration Update

*Anne Oliveira*

Discussed recent lockdown incident and ACPD response.

## Other Business

Meredith G. and Ashley F. discussed messages from teachers about snacks. Board discussed perceptions about school-wide needs for snacks, as well as individual teacher strategies to address snacks. Board agreed to continue gathering information about the situation.

## Adjournment

- Meeting adjourned at 8:20 pm.
- Next Board Meeting: Thursday, December 7 at 6:30pm. Location TBD

*/s/ Erin Cassidy, Secretary with help from James Harlow as Erin departed meeting early*