---
title: Executive Board Meeting Minutes â€” April 25, 2023
summary: Minutes for the April 25, 2023 Executive Board Meeting.
date: 2023-04-25T20:00:00-05:00
bookSearchExclude: true
images:
    - share/pta.png
booktoc: true
---

## Call to Order

The virtual meeting was called to order at 8:00pm. Executive Board members in attendance:
- Sharon Burd, President
- Ken Venable, VP for Educational Programs
- Clare Rosenberger, VP for Fundraising
- Megan Miller, VP for Community Relations
- Meredith Greene, VP for Events
- Christian Lindstrom, Treasurer
- Dan Burd, Secretary

The board voted to approve the March 28 Executive Board Meeting Minutes.

## Fifth Grade Pool Party
*Sharon Burd*

Sharon asked whether there would be a Fifth Grade Pool Party since she had received several emails about it. Mr. Horak stated that APS "put the kibash" on those last year since it's a field trip with no educational purpose. He said APS also stated there was an issue with "insurance liability and things like that." He said it can be held after-hours by another organization, but that doing it during school hours is "absolutely no." He said that "this is just not a thing APS sponsors anymore."

## Big Wave
*Sharon Burd*

Sharon asked about plans for the Big Wave. Mr. Horak would like to hold the Big Wave in the morning so that all of the students can watch. He is still figuring out logistics.

## Outdoor Lab Field Trip
*Sharon Burd*

Sharon asked about the cancellation of the overnight portion of the fifth grade field trip to the Outdoor Lab. Mr. Horak said it was a "bummer" but he wants to work with the fifth grade team to make something memorable happen. Clare asked whether the school could hold a pool party. Mr. Horak said that APS couldn't sponsor a pool party.

## International Night
*Meredith Greene*

Meredith described plans for International Night to occur on April 28.

- It might rain. The only thing that's going to be affected is the shave ice truck. We'll have some tents to keep people dry.
- We will be handing out programs. There will be a QR code that will go to a translated program.
- The vent will start at 5:30, hopefully everyone will be in their seats in the gym, ready to go watch the performance as we have five different performers, including the chorus, two dance groups, jiu-jitsu, and Double Dutch. The performances will last until 6:30. Mr. Michael will emcee for us. We will have eabout 250 seats in the gym.
- After 6:30, people will walk down to the cafeteria and grab passports and visit the tables there, and to eat food. People will have brought food that will be available to eat placed along two buffet lines, and there will also be pupusas from a local shop on Columbia Pike. The art teachers have offered to help make crowns.
- Kids will use our garden mint to make some ice tea.
- We will have Henna, as well as stickers, bounce balls, globes.

## Teacher Appreciation Week
*Ashley Farrugia*

Ashley described plans for Teacher Appreciation Week:

- Working on getting flowers for teachers
- Recruit families to write thank you notes for teachers
- Bagels and breakfast in the teacher's lounge on Monday
- Candy in the teacher's lounge
- Charcuterie on Tuesday
- Smoothies and spa treatments on Wednesday, as well as express manicures and maybe express facials
- Thursday is t-shirts for teachers, trail mix, and popcorn machine
- Friday is cakes from Nothing Bundt Cakes

## Proposed Budget Amendments
*Dan Burd*

Dan explained some draft budget amendments that he would like to propose at the May 9 General Membership Meeting:

- Move $1,250 from the "Laminator Film" line item to a new "Field Day" line item.
- Move $750 from the "School Play" line item to the aforementioned "Field Day" line item.
- Move $1,000 from the "Winter Wonderland" line item to the "After-School Enrichment Scholarships" line item.
- Move $700 from the "Movie Nights" line item to a new "Fifth Grade Picnic" line item.
- Move $300 from the "Movie Nights" line item to a new "Fifth Grade Field Trip" line item.

The Board voted unanimously to send these to the General Membership for their approval.

## Audit Committee
*Dan Burd*

Dan said he would reach out to Lauren and Erica who served on the Audit Committee last year to see if they would be willing to serve again this year.

## Spirit Gear
*Meredith Greene*

The Spirit Gear arrived today. The PTA earned either $350 or $375 from it. She will work on distributing it.

## Back-to-School Picnic
*Meredith Greene*

Meredith heard from Ms. Tyson who said the FACE Committee was considering having a picnic on the day of the Open House, and since the PTA typically does a Back-to-School picnic there is a possibility that FACE and the PTA could join forces. Dan opined that that made sense.

## Outstanding Checks
*Christian Lindstrom*

Christian talked with individual board members about outstanding payments to be made.

## Adjournment

- Meeting adjourned at 8:57 pm
- Next Board Meeting: Tuesday, May 23, 2023, 8 pm

*/s/ Dan Burd, Secretary*