---
title: Executive Board Meeting Minutes — September 19, 2023
summary: Minutes for the September 19, 2023 Executive Board Meeting.
date: 2023-09-19T18:00:00-04:00
bookSearchExclude: true
images: ["share/pta.png"]
booktoc: true
---

## Call to Order

The zoom meeting was called to order at 6:00pm Executive Board members in attendance:

- James Harlow, President
- Tina Kelly, VP for Educational Programs
- Sara Kirschner, VP for Community Relations
- Megan Miller, VP for Fundraising
- Maggie Bush, VP for Communications
- Ashley Farrugia, VP for Staff Appreciation
- Meredith Greene, VP for Events
- David DeBoer, Treasurer
- Erin Cassidy, Secretary
- David Horak, Principal

The board voted to approve the August 4 Executive Board Meeting Minutes.

## Financial Update
*James Harlow and David DeBoer*

James provided an overview of the proposed budget for the year; an increased budget but still conservative number. There was a motion and second for the Executive Board to approve the proposed budget. It will be taken to the General Membership to vote and sign off on it.

David proposed to revisit the budget in January to see where we are and adjust if needed.

## Meetings-Executive Board & General Membership
*James Harlow*

There was a motion to adopt and unanimously approved on the number of meetings to hold for the Executive Board and General Membership meetings for the year. We will hold Executive Board meetings on the first Thursday of the month with a hybrid option; it will come out to 9 total meetings for the year.

For General Membership meetings, there will be a total of 5 meetings being held the third Thursday of the month. Aiming to hold in person meetings for the general.

## Fall Enrichment Update
*Tina Kelly*

At this time 2 classes for the fall enrichment are at capacity. Those include the Minecraft and Cooking classes. There are also 2 classes that have not yet reached the minimum needed to hold a class: Origami and Theatre. We are still looking into an on-site coordinator as the last option fell through due to the potential candidate no longer being available. Baroody will now need to figure out a solution.

## Principal Discussion items
*Principal David Horak*

Mr. Horak mentioned there will be a new shade structure on the playground since the playground area lost many trees recently. APS Budget decisions will be starting this week.

## Fundraising Update
*Megan Miller*

The Dough Raiser for Dominos was a success. We raised $240 that night. Megan mentioned Silver Diner Spirit Night will be on October 16. Lots of opportunities to encourage others to participate and volunteer, ie food runners, running PTA table with spirit gear, etc.

We are now signed up for the Eat Well, Do Well program. A reminder about the Harris Teeter program; every year you have to re register. Other ideas that are being worked on include: a Bingo Night, 50/50 raffle, Dudley’s Parents Night Out, 5K/Silent Auction, and various other Spirit nights and passive fundraising options.

## CCPTA Grant Application
*James Harlow*

James submitted a grant application for up to $3500 for an author visit. Mr. Horak approved this and now are just awaiting an answer. We should be notified in October.

## Trunk or Treat Event
*Meredith Greene*

Planning is well underway for the Trunk or Treat event scheduled for Saturday, October 28 from 1-3pm. Volunteers are needed for various aspects to make the event successful. The Assistant Principals are set to pass out candy during the same time frame at a location off Columbia Pike for those who can’t make it to Abingdon. Ideas for the event other than trunk or treating include but not limited to: DJ, Juggler, Magician, Popcorn Machine. No alpacas available.

## Staff Appreciation Update
*Ashley Farrugia*

There are extra Jeni’s Ice Cream coupons leftover from handing out to teachers. Putting it on our radar to start thinking about the parent teacher conferences coming up; ideas for either breakfast or lunch spreads. Ashley mentioned the staff is seeking more community events to feel more connected to the students, parents and community as a whole. They would also love a supply buffet.

## Staff/Student Activities Grant Program Special Committee
*James Harlow*

The board motioned and unanimously approved James and Dave to be the members from the Executive Board. Will solicit someone from the General Membership to round out the committee.

## Adjournment
- Meeting adjourned at 7:25 pm
- Next Board Meeting: Thursday, October 5 at 6:30pm. Hybrid participation

*/s/ Erin Cassidy, Secretary*