---
title: Executive Board Meeting Minutes — April 4, 2024
summary: Minutes for the April 4, 2024 Executive Board Meeting.
date: 2024-04-04T18:30:00-04:00
bookSearchExclude: true
images: ["share/pta.png"]
booktoc: true
---

## Call to Order

The hybrid zoom/in person meeting was called to order at 6:48pm. Executive Board members in attendance:

- James Harlow, President
- Tina Kelly, VP for Educational Programs
- Maggie Bush, VP for Communication
- Ashley Farrugia, VP for Staff Appreciation
- Meredith Greene, VP for Events
- Sara Kirschner, VP for Community Relations
- David DeBoer, Treasurer
- Erin Cassidy, Secretary
- David Horak-Principal

The Board approved the February 8 Executive Board Mins.

## Financial Update
*David DeBoer*

Confirmed that Cardinal PTA gave us $3K. Current balance is $37,731.

5 new staff grants. We have had a total of 14 grants funded this year. We are currently tapped out on grant funds. We have also had a request from Ms. Fisher for carts for iPad charging. The cost will be $1700 for 6 charging carts; the request is for 9/1/24.

Budget Amendment- there was a motion to approve to reallocate $500 from events to staff grants. Motion unanimously approved.

## Staff Appreciation Update
*Ashley Farrugia*

Supply Buffet will be utilizing $750. Asking families to sponsor teachers for lunch during parent teacher conferences. We will order sandwiches/salads from Lost Dog Cafe. An order on Thursday and Friday is the plan.

May 6 is Teacher Appreciation Week.

## Book Fair Update
*Tina Kelly*

While working with Pajama Mama, a new vendor this year, we took notes of things to do differently next year. Would be good to have more books at lower price points. Gross sales were lower than last year, but the take home was greater. 177 kids received books because of vouchers. $1634 in purchases.

## Events Update
*Meredith Greene*

Cultural Heritage Night update. We currently have 1 restaurant so far confirmed (El Salvadorean) We will not be having food trucks this year. Hoping for additional restaurants. Will need a lot of volunteers for the event, 10x10 pop up tents. Would love to have interpreters for the beginning at the doors to welcome everyone.

## Benevity Account

The PTA now has a Benevity Account. Booz Allen has a Benevity account and wondering if other corporations have that. Should send a note to parents/community members as it’s an easy way to donate to the PTA.

## Next General Membership Meeting

James unable to attend, the March 21 meeting, so Tina volunteered to run the meeting. Also, trying to brainstorm on ways to have the PTA members in the audience be more involved and not just listening or being talked at.

## Principal Update
*David Horak*

Big news update that the APS Budget will likely see cuts, but not all known at this time. However, the second Assistant Principal position will not be funded as contingency request for next year.

Board (exception of Mr Horak) discussed sending a letter to the school board.

Anticipating classroom movements after the school year, please send Mr. Horak qualified, interested teacher candidates.

## Adjournment

- Meeting adjourned at 8:30pm
- Next Board Meeting: Thursday, April 4 6:30pm.
- Location : Zoom/ In person
- */s/ Erin Cassidy, Secretary*