---
title: Executive Board Meeting Minutes — January 4, 2024
summary: Minutes for the January 4, 2024 Executive Board Meeting.
date: 2024-01-04T18:30:00-04:00
bookSearchExclude: true
images: ["share/pta.png"]
booktoc: true
---

## Call to Order

The zoom meeting was called to order at 6:30pm. Executive Board members in attendance:

- James Harlow, President
- Tina Kelly, VP for Educational Programs
- Sara Kirschner, VP for Community Relations
- Megan Miller, VP for Fundraising
- Ashley Farrugia, VP for Staff Appreciation
- Maggie Bush, VP for Communications
- Meredith Greene, VP for Events
- David DeBoer, Treasurer
- Erin Cassidy, Secretary
- David Horak, Principal

The Board approved the Nov 2 Executive Board Mins. 

## Financial Update
*David DeBoer*

We are down about 3K, just spent money on tshirts. (1700)

Dave thinks we could add money to the staff grant fund. Many requests came through in December for staff grants. James likes the idea, but thinks we should hold off for just a little bit before adding more. 

## Fundraising Update
*Megan Miller*

Bingo Night

Since this is a fundraising event, we’ll have merchandise, tshirts, water bottles, etc. Pizza and candy will be for sale also. Should we charge at the door? Per game? Board decided to charge $5 per bingo player.

Will have about 5 or 6 regular rounds, and perhaps a music round or something else fun. Secured a speaker and microphone. Going to ask the staff/admin on if any of them will like to be a guest bingo announcer.

Asking local places to donate gift cards. Will need to promote people bringing cash for entry, etc.

Megan will send out an email of who she has asked so far for gift cards and keep track of items received.

Taco Bamba will be hosting a fundraiser night in February and then the next big event will be the read a thon in March.

## Community Relations Update
*Sara Kirschner*

MLK Day update

Sara has been in communication with Guy Land. We need to spend a little bit of money to get gloves for adults and kids, box of trash bags, bottle of hand sanitizer, and hand warmers. Once trash is picked up, where do we put it? In the dumpster in the back of school? Mr. Horak will check if they’re locked, but if not, certainly utilize them. Sara will also pick up coffee/hot chocolate.

Guy Land did say, the dentist in Fairlington is interested in sponsoring something at Abingdon. 

## Staff Appreciation Update

*Ashley Farrugia*

Right before break, Ashley coordinated volunteers to go around to staff at Abingdon and surprised them with hot chocolate/tea, muffins and a lottery ticket.

Do we have a master staff list?

Supply pop up and supply buffet plan. Ashley is going to ask staff what they need or want at this time of the year. Will ask for donations and utilize a wish list as needed. 

## Enrichment Update/ Book Fair
*Tina Kelly* 

For book fair vouchers, should we have an external funding source? Kay Houghton funded this last year. Maureen wanted 1500 for the vouchers. Tina will reach out to Kay. Feb 12-16 are the dates. It’s only going to be during the school day this year, with one extend hours day on Tuesday- 3:30-6:30pm.

Enrichment-Baroody list went out to encourage folks to sign up. Registration opens January 7 and ends January 14 at midnight.

From fall 2023 enrichment cycle, PTA fees totaled $750 ($5 x 150 paying students). 23 students requested scholarships: 10 were covered by providers, 9 by Baroody, and 4 by PTA out of the $750. Those 4 PTA scholarships totaled $748, so $2 remains.

Cardinal Club- Molly Fisher still needs students to register. 

## Events Update
*Meredith Greene* 

Winter Wonderland Update

Everything is still on track and in the works. Nighthawk will start our event at 5pm. Cardinal is the code word for Abingdon to get credit.

Parents night out- looking to have a FR at Dudley’s or something similar. Thinking this will occur in May. Still behind the scenes leg work happening.

## Principal Update
*David Horak*

FYI-coming out next week the Governor will announce they will be offering tutoring opportunities for 3-5th grade students that qualify. We have to find tutors/spaces and times. It will be a quick turn around and a lot of maneuvering.

Asked about multicultural night. Confirmed Friday, April 19 is the date.

Budget season is upon us and Dr. Duran said it could be a tight budget year. 

## Adjournment

- Meeting adjourned at 7:24pm
- Next Board Meeting: Thursday, February 1, 6:30pm. Date and time may adjust due to the Winter concert at Abingdon.
- Location: Zoom
- */s/ Erin Cassidy, Secretary*