---
title: Executive Board Meeting Minutes — March 7, 2024
summary: Minutes for the March 7, 2024 Executive Board Meeting.
date: 2024-03-07T18:30:00-04:00
bookSearchExclude: true
images: ["share/pta.png"]
booktoc: true
---

## Call to Order

The hybrid zoom/in person meeting was called to order at 6:36pm. Executive Board members in attendance:

- James Harlow, President
- Tina Kelly, VP for Educational Programs
- Maggie Bush, VP for Communication
- Ashley Farrugia, VP for Staff Appreciation
- Meredith Greene, VP for Events
- Sara Kirschner, VP for Community Relations
- David DeBoer, Treasurer
- Erin Cassidy, Secretary
- David Horak-Principal

The Board approved the March 7 Executive Board Minutes. 

## Financial Update
*David DeBoer*

Good position currently. We do not have final numbers yet on the read-a-thon. We have already spent the extra $500 for grants that we allocated. Second graders window plants and Leis for Literacy Luau Night. We have gotten two new requests for field trip buses. Can we do fundraisers for grants? *We then brainstormed different ways to send/give money for field trips. Are we able to do a general fundraiser for grants?

Update on 2025 Budget Advocacy- Dave virtually met with Mary Cadera during her open office hours. They had a discussion on keeping the momentum for people getting involved. 

## Staff Appreciation Update
*Ashley Farrugia*

Teacher Appreciation week is May 6-10. The budget for the week is $3500. 

Ideas: Tailgate-grillout for teachers, Moe’s Southwest, Ice Cream Bar (Jeni’s or Baskin Robbins)

Do we have a Restaurant Depot account?

The Supply Buffet will lead up to Teacher Appreciation Week. 

## Enrichment
*Tina Kelly* 

Enrichment starts next Tuesday, April 9. Tina mentioned that we received the donation from Kay Houghton. 

## Events Update
*Meredith Greene* 

Cultural Heritage Night- April 19 from 6-8pm. Will not be utilizing rsvps as it just has not worked out in past years. We bough 4 10x10 pop up tents; gift from the PTA for the school to use moving forward. It’s been challenging garnering interest for volunteers. We will use the cafeteria and out back on the playground. Food will be catered food, people bringing in dishes from their respective countries and cultures. There will be a DJ, Henna painting, Double Dutch (no program before like last year though)

May 17- Astro Beer Hall in Shirlington will be hosting a Parents Night Out Event. They’ll donate 5% back to the PTA. More to come on that event. 

## Principal Update
*David Horak*

Mr. Horak mentioned that he is behind in posting job announcements. They should be posted by April 15. It was discussed that we should add to the Fairlington Bulletin and the Cardinal Courier about any openings. There is also a need for school based substitutes and any candidates should be sent to Mr. Horak directly so we can utilize those for Abingdon. 

## Adjournment

- Meeting adjourned at 7:35pm
- Next Board Meeting: Thursday, May 2 at 6:30pm. 
- Location : Zoom/ In person
- */s/ Erin Cassidy, Secretary* 