---
title: Executive Board Meeting Minutes — February 8, 2024
summary: Minutes for the February 8, 2024 Executive Board Meeting.
date: 2024-02-08T18:30:00-04:00
bookSearchExclude: true
images: ["share/pta.png"]
booktoc: true
---

The zoom meeting was called to order at 6:48pm. Executive Board members in attendance:

- James Harlow, President
- Tina Kelly, VP for Educational Programs
- Megan Miller, VP for Fundraising
- Ashley Farrugia, VP for Staff Appreciation
- Meredith Greene, VP for Events
- David DeBoer, Treasurer
- Erin Cassidy, Secretary
- David Horak, Principal

The Board approved the January 4 Executive Board Mins. 

## Financial Update
*David DeBoer*

Things are great right now as far as the finances are looking. Total sales for Bingo Night were $1289. Money spent to prepare for event was $604 and we netted $685. 

Will get the $$ number from Megan re: Taco Bamba.

Cardinal PTA is expected to give us $3K.

## Fundraising Update
*Megan Miller*

Bingo Night was a success as Dave mentioned the numbers. Planning to sell tshirts at Skate Night and Book Fair. 

Silver Diner is asking for us to have another Fundraiser night at their restaurant. Thinking spring time. 

Read-a-thon is scheduled for March 11-22.

For Joe Reeds basketball camp/PTA fundraiser, we need to find an alternative location to hold since APS locations are closed for the school holiday. Megan will call around to find out options. 

## Staff Appreciation Update
*Ashley Farrugia*

Supply Buffett news: Ashley sent a form to staff and asked what their needs were. Our budget is $500, possibly more if we want to look at that. Looking at options, possible giving every grade big ticket items and then they’ll get packages of other items. There will also be a breakfast coordinated alongside the supplies. 

WIll be buying pizzas on the Friday following skate night from Nighthawk in order to utilize the PTA FR for the teachers. 

## Enrichment Update/ Book Fair
*Tina Kelly* 

Reiterating that enrichment cannot utilize the gym or any outdoor space anytime because of extended day. 

Tina mentioned the idea of holding winter enrichments with just Abingdon teachers and not through Baroody. Also, she would like to give gifts cards to teachers who let us use their rooms for enrichment courses as a token of thanks. 

## Events Update
*Meredith Greene* 

Winter Wonderland Update/Skate Night

Everything is still on track and in the works. Nighthawk will start our event at 5pm. Cardinal is the code word for Abingdon to get credit for food for Thursday and Friday. Students and Abingdon staff will skate for free. Parents and siblings will be $10. 

International Night/Cultural Heritage Night: discussed catered food vs. food trucks. Currently working on organization and a theme. Needs include a tent. Always anticipate more people than actually rsvp.. 

## Field Day

Scheduled for June 7, last year cost was $1500. Waiting to hear what the PE teachers are thinking in terms of events/help needed. 

## Principal Update
*David Horak*

FYI-APS Budget is still in the works for next year.

Mentioned that the school is changing demographics quickly and significantly. 

## Adjournment

- Meeting adjourned at 7:58pm
- Next Board Meeting: Thursday, March 7, 6:30pm. 
- Location : Zoom/ In person

*/s/ Erin Cassidy, Secretary* 