---
title: October 12, 2021 General Membership Meeting Minutes
summary: Minutes for the October 12, 2021 General Membership Meeting.
date: 2021-10-12T18:30:00-04:00
images:
- share/pta.png
---

## Call to Order
Meeting began at 6:30pm.

## Gifted Instructional Services Presentation
*Maria deOlazo, Abingdon Gifted Services Coordinator*

## Principal’s Report
*David Horak, Principal*

- Abingdon is using a new model of morning meeting that includes special teachers and other school staff to build student relationships throughout the building.- - Abingdon continues to work on the importance of equity and will be renewing the cross cultural parent network.
- Parent-teacher conference days are October 21 and 22.
- A reminder to please label lunchboxes, coats and water bottles.
- There will be no Halloween parade this year to avoid missing instructional time for both Abingdon students and the Wakefield High School band; there will be a Trunk or Treat event on October 30 in the Abingdon parking lot from 12-2pm.
- Questions about Strive for Five; Abingdon using Responsive Classroom, future presentation to be made to PTA.

## ACTL Update
*Ken Venable, ACTL Representative*

- ACTL October 6 mtg discussed math curriculum (including discussion of Dreambox at the elementary level), the report is available at [www.apsva.us/actl](http://www.apsva.us/actl).

## President’s Report
*Jackie Winkelvoss, President*

- Abingdon-Drew school boundary information will be posted online on October 14 prior to the School Board meeting. This information can be found https://www.apsva.us/engage/fall-2021-boundary-process/. Between Oct 16-28 there will be 4 community meetings (one in Spanish and translation available for all) and 2 virtual office hours. All boundary changes will take effect 2022-23 school year.
- Trunk or Treat will take place Saturday, October 30 from 12-2pm and there will be a sign-up genius forthcoming.
- Staff Appreciation Breakfast will take place October 21, those who have volunteered or wish to volunteer can meet after the meeting.

## Treasurer’s Report
*Christian Lindstrom, Treasurer*

- Christian Lindstrom presented the 2021-22 budget. Motion was made to approve the budget, motion approved.
- The projected annual revenue is $25,800. The projected annual expenses is $33,200.

## Meeting Adjourned at 8:00pm.