---
title: November 9, 2021 General Membership Meeting Minutes
summary: Minutes for the November 9, 2021 General Membership Meeting.
date: 2021-11-09T18:30:00-05:00
images:
- share/pta.png
---

## Call to Order
Meeting began at 6:30pm.

## PTA 101 Presentation
Jackie Winkelvoss, PTA President presented a slideshow to illustrate how PTA works, what it means, and how to be involved.

## PTA Survey
Christian Lindstrom, PTA Treasurer presented information about a forthcoming PTA survey in both English and Spanish to gather responses about how PTA can better serve the school community.

## Current volunteer opportunities
Sara Carr, PTA Secretary presented each of the committees that are accepting volunteers to assist with future PTA events and activities.

## Updates on Thanksgiving and Holiday Support for families
Look for signup genius for donations of sides and volunteering to put bags and food together to be distributed by Abingdon support staff.
- 45 thanksgiving dinners
  - Donations will be collected for:
    - Sides for 25 turkeys
    - 45 pies
  - Help putting together bags on 11/18 afternoon
- Adopt-A-Family Sign Up Genius - details are being finalized, signup genius to be compiled in the next few weeks.
- Approval of Meeting Minutes from October meeting-approved.
- Approval of Local Unit Organization Structure Form-approved to be submitted to the state PTA.

## Principal’s Report
*David Horak, Principal*

- There were recent plumbing issues handled quickly by APS. 
- Mr. Horak thanked the community and PTA for their participation in the recent Trunk or Treat event, and was happy with a large turnout. 
- Mr. Horak presented that there will be no boundary changes this school year, and that Abingdon and Drew Elementaries will be part of the boundary-wide elementary boundary process next fall. 
- There will be a new kindergarten class opening to accommodate the class size. 
- APS, particularly Abingdon, is accepting substitute teachers and lunch attendants. 
- Mr. Micael reported that the instructional assistant luncheon was a success, and thanked the PTA for their help.

## ACTL Update
*Ken Venable, ACTL Representative*

ACTL Committee reported APS is planning to address improving literacy instruction at all schools. ACTL is encouraging all parents/guardians to take a look at this short [video on literacy instruction](https://r20.rs6.net/tn.jsp?f=001B3utp3rAu1XztPfYdZxZbD2yU_sEbguQJRNXyIMql9zqeIG7Ap3tSVLd8jN8UL0LndUOvS72j8i-hoClN2uz5DUpAQeY060mNt_4apgUG7Osjzp-DYD6xaHsl2J8TI2Ni8JdVgI71h8083xgoyL0NXWV37TNnHGzDZ-DVMOfQAo=&c=93nF6_FKsx6qDbLB4UdQeO6N4QH9X90yHFq1k3gBrk2gdoc210g8Xg==&ch=irlt3UW3bGQJhIrVwOuEItCqXQUQYRYhLl6mlMYyZ2kQAjL5GDuwug==) recently released by APS featuring Barcroft Elementary School.

## Meeting adjourned at 7:20pm

- Next Meeting: January 11 at 6:30pm