---
title: General Membership Meeting Minutes — March 8, 2022
summary: Minutes for the March 8, 2022 General Membership Meeting.
date: 2022-03-08T18:30:00-05:00
images:
- share/pta.png
---

## Call to Order

The meeting was called to order at 6:30pm. 37 participants were present. Executive Committee members in attendance:
- Jackie Winkelvoss, PTA President
- Sara Carr, PTA Secretary
- Christian Lindstrom, PTA Treasurer

## Bilingual welcome
*Jackie Winkelvoss, PTA President and Anne Oliveira, Assistant Principal*

Instructions given for Spanish and Arabic interpretation room by Christian Lindstrom, Treasurer.

## Presentation: Covid Learning Gaps and Screen Time Overload: Strategies to Get Kids Back on Track
*Ann Dolin, M.Ed.*

Ms. Dolin’s presentation included strategies for at-home learning, improving executive functioning, and helping kids enjoy learning. Ms. Dolin provided more information here: https://ectutoring.com/powerful-questions.

## Annual Title I Presentation & School-Family Partnership survey
*Maria Gerald, Abingdon Pre-K Teacher and Title I coordinator*

Ms. Gerald urged families to complete the survey at: https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=pgg3Mem3LEmsevGXNPP3ArKUyYHnS7JAjY32Yl3Q0KBUMkxJNkZHREQyNEJVU0Y2MDZEWFFDSklHWi4u

## Principal’s Report
*David Horak, Principal*

- Kindergarten Information Session (virtual) on Monday, March 14 1:30pm-2:30pm (will also be recorded)
- International Night April 29
- Lost and found is full at school—please check for student’s belongings
- SOL's are coming up
- No boundary changes for this school year and next, per Dr. Duran
- COVID cases are decreasing and the mask mandate has been dropped; contact administration with any questions.
- April 4 9:30am-11am upcoming sixth grade students will be visiting their assigned middle school for a tour and information session

## Events Committee
*Meredith Greene/Sharon Burd*

Upcoming garden events and International Night (April 29) are forthcoming, more information to be provided soon, and these events will need volunteers.

## Fundraising
*Jackie Winkelvoss/Clare Rosenberger*

The Read-a-Thon starts on March 21-April 1; Abingdon PTA’s biggest fundraiser, students will be receiving information on how to register and track reading minutes. March 19th 1-3 is the Read-a-Thon kick off event: book swap at Abingdon (outside). March 25th is “Read the day away” at school.

## Nominating Committee
*Dan Burd*

Dan explained the Nominating Committee and more information will be coming re: open PTA board positions for 2022-2023 school year.

## Vote on Nominating Committee members
Motion passed to appoint a Nominating Committee for 2022-2023 PTA officers.

Members of the Nominating Committee are: Gulnora Ashrova, Dan Burd, Sharon Burd, Sara Carr, Christian Lindstrom, Amber Scivolette and Lauren Shaub. Dan Burd is the temporary chair of the committee.

## Meeting adjourned at 8:00 PM
Next PTA Meetings: 

- Tuesday April 19 at 6:30pm: Meeting with Cristian Diaz-Torres, APS School Board Member
- Tuesday May 17 at 6:30pm: Final General Membership Meeting of SY2021-2022 and election of Executive Board for SY 2022-2023
