---
title: April 19, 2022 General Membership Meeting Minutes
summary: Minutes for the April 19, 2022 General Membership Meeting.
date: 2022-04-19
images:
- share/pta.png
---

## Call to Order

The meeting was called to order at 6:30pm. 28 participants were present. Executive Committee members in attendance:
- Jackie Winkelvoss, PTA President
- Sara Carr, PTA Secretary
- Christian Lindstrom, PTA Treasurer

## Bilingual welcome
*Jackie Winkelvoss, President and Anne Oliveira, Assistant Principal*

- Spanish instructions for how to get into the interpretation room: Christian Lindstrom, Treasurer and Vasthy Delgado
- Arabic instructions for how to get into the interpretation room: Christian Lindstrom and Arabic Interpreter

## School Board Report
*Cristina Diaz-Torres, Abingdon’s APS School Board Liaison*

Announcements about happenings in APS:
- Bell schedule for 2022-23 to be finalized on April 28, going to a school board vote on May 12
- Your Voice Matter Survey deadline extended to April 24; every family has a personalized email
- New student dashboard is live on APSVA website
- School board policies available for public comment
- Budget/CIP season
- Q&A/Discussion: further questions or comments can be directed to Ms. Diaz-Torres at Cristina.diaztorres@apsva.us

## Principal’s Report
*David Horak, Principal*

- Lost and Found reminder; please put names in each child’s belongings
- May 11 is Art Show, May 12 is Strings/Band Concert, May 13 is International Night, May 18 SOLs start
- Bell schedule changes will impact Abingdon; even if school starts 10 minutes earlier, bus schedule will remain the same

## Book Fair
*Maureen McCormick*

Book fair is 4/25-4/29. Need for Volunteers: https://www.signupgenius.com/go/10c0e4fabac28a3f8c43-abingdon, also email maureen.c.mccormick@gmail.com if you need to complete the APS volunteer form. Form is available at: https://www.apsva.us/volunteers-partnerships/volunteer-application-form/application-process/

## Teacher Appreciation Week
*Ashley McCarthy, Staff Appreciation Chair*

Teacher Appreciation Week is May 3-May 6. Volunteer flier and signup genius forthcoming. To include a wellness/relaxation event with Erin Sonn of Eat, Drink, Yoga, a Guapos lunch, Abingdon T-shirts, and other special surprises.

## Abingdon Art Show
Volunteers needed to help label artwork, contact Ms. Muscarella at lauren.muscarella@apsva.us

## International Night
*Sharon Burd and Meredith Greene, Events Committee Co-Chairs*

International Night is Friday, 5/13, 6pm to 8 pm. Passports for each student attending to learn more about other countries, cultures, a Latin Band performing, food trucks and more. Contact Sharon and Meredith to participate: Sharon, sharonhburd@gmail.com, call/text (202) 681-7286, Meredith, meregreene5@gmail.com.

## 5th Grade Promotion
Save the Date: Tuesday June 14, 10am-11:30am

## Garden Update
*Sharon Burd*

Seeds are sprouting and classes are using the garden, Sharon Burd gave a sign up https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc62Xf5rFUBG1XqElQa2VQJUJu8k8Kf0RWTWPzoemf8bOLF-A/viewform to help.

## Fundraising Update
*Jackie Winkelvoss, President*

Readathon raised $19,720 with a total of 259,836 minutes read! Administration will have a Sumo wrestling day to celebrate; classes that won will celebrate, including Ms. Reicherter and Ms. Jondahl

## Budget Update
*Christian Lindstrom, Treasurer*

Motion approved to give an additional $1,474 to Teacher Appreciation Week and $2000 to International Night. Contact lindstromcd@gmail.com with any budget questions.

## Nominating Committee Update
*Dan Burd, Nominating Committee Chair*

The following nominations were made by the nominating committee, to be voted on at next PTA meeting. Contact abingdonptapresident@gmail.com if you wish to contest any of these postiions:
- President, Sharon Burd
- Vice President for Communications, Laura Chadwick
- Vice President for Fundraising, Clare Rosenberger
- Vice President for Educational Programs, Ken Venable
- Vice President for Community Relations, Megan Miller
- Vice President for Events, Meredith Greene
- Vice President for Staff Appreciation, Ashley Farrugia
- Treasurer, Christian Lindstrom
- Secretary, Dan Burd

## Audit Committee
*Dan Burd*

Contact Dan to be a part of the committee that will convene this summer dan.burd@gmail.com

## Meeting adjourned at 8:00 PM

- Next PTA Meeting: May 24 at 6:30pm