---
title: General Membership Meeting Minutes — May 24, 2022
summary: Minutes for the May 24, 2022 General Membership Meeting.
date: 2022-05-24T18:30:00-04:00
images:
- share/pta.png
bookSearchExclude: true
---

## Call to Order

The meeting was called to order at 6:30pm. 30 participants were present. Executive Committee members in attendance:
- Jackie Winkelvoss, PTA President
- Sara Carr, PTA Secretary
- Christian Lindstrom, PTA Treasurer

## Bilingual welcome
*Jackie Winkelvoss, President and Anne Oliveira, Assistant Principal*

- Spanish instructions for how to get into the interpretation room: Christian Lindstrom, Treasurer and Vasthy Delgado
- Arabic instructions for how to get into the interpretation room: Christian Lindstrom and Arabic Interpreter

## Election of Executive Board for the 2022-2023 School Year

2022-2023 Board Members were elected by unanimous vote: 
- President, Sharon Burd
- Vice President for Communications, Laura Chadwick
- Vice President for Fundraising, Clare Rosenberger
- Vice President for Educational Programs, Ken Venable
- Vice President for Community Relations, Megan Miller
- Vice President for Events, Meredith Greene
- Vice President for Staff Appreciation, Ashley Farrugia
- Treasurer, Christian Lindstrom
- Secretary, Dan Burd

## Principal’s Report
*David Horak, Principal*

- Teacher Appreciation Week: May 3 - May 6 was a success, Mr. Horak thanked PTA volunteers for the teacher events and new spirit wear.
- Abingdon Art Show had a huge turnout, positive compliments on the fifth grade students acting as docents to the event.
- International Night was extremely well-attended, students and parents reported learning more about other cultures, the food buffet, and live Band and dancers as something they enjoyed. 

## Upcoming Events
*Jackie Winkelvoss*

- 5th Grade Promotion, Tuesday June 14 10am-11:30am, Jackie reports that volunteers have been gathered and the event is taken care of.

## Garden Update
*Sharon Burd*

Sharon reports that more seedlings have sprouted and there are volunteers lined up to continue the garden’s care during the summer months. 

## Budget Update
*Christian Lindstrom*

Christian notes that the May events had approved funding, and will be given budget line items for the following year.

## Audit Committee
*Dan Burd*

Dan reports that the audit committee will convene shortly.

## Meeting adjourned
- Next Meeting: TBD September 2022
- Reminder that the Bell schedule changes for Abingdon are a 7:50am school start time.

