---
title: General Membership Meeting Minutes — May 9, 2023
summary: Minutes for the May 9, 2023 General Membership Meeting.
date: 2023-05-09T19:00:00-04:00
images: ["share/pta.png"]
booktoc: true
---

## Call to Order

The virtual meeting was called to order at 7:02 PM. 26 participants were present. Executive Committee members in attendance:
- Sharon Burd, President
- Christian Lindstrom, Treasurer
- Ken Venable, VP for Educational Programs
- Clare Rosenberger, VP for Fundraising
- Megan Miller, VP for Community Relations
- Ashley Farrugia, VP for Staff Appreciation
- Dan Burd, Secretary

### Approval of Meeting Minutes

Membership voted to approve the [April 11, 2023 meeting minutes](../2023-04-11).

## PTA Updates

### Treasurer's Report
*Christian Lindstrom, Treasurer*

Christian provided the Treasurer's report. The financial statements are [here](/presentations/2023-05-09_1.pdf) and [here](/presentations/2023-05-09_2.pdf).

### Events
*Meredith Greene, VP for Events*

Meredith thanked attendees for coming to International Night. She hopes to get some sort of RSVP system working in the future.

### Staff Appreciation
*Ashley Farrugia, VP for Staff Appreciation*

Ashley described efforts to recognize Teacher Appreciation Week, which are currently ongoing: chalking the front area; providing bagels, pastries, candy, charcuterie, and smoothies for the teachers at various times; and setting up a "movie concession stand" and a dessert bar for the teachers.

### Educational Programs
*Ken Venable, VP for Educational Programs*

Ken said that enrichment programs were ongoing, but that there would only be winter and spring enrichment sessions next year due to the challenges of setting up a fall enrichment session when staff are still on vacation.

### Fundraising
*Clare Rosenberger, VP for Fundraising*

Claire stated that the PTA will receive about $18,000 from Read-a-thon. The top classes in each grade had a popsicle party.

### Community Relations
*Megan Miller, VP for Community Relations*

Megan stated that the snack pantry is on track and that she is trying to make the funds last until the end of the year. She thanked the Daisy Troops for volunteering in the snack pantry.

### Secretary's Report
*Dan Burd, Secretary*

Dan stated that the last round of staff grants have been disbursed. These include STEM bins for second grade classrooms, reflective vests for the Eco Action team, and t-shirts for the school's Math Dice team. The PTA was able to pay for all of the grant applications we received, or route them to someone else who was able to pay.

### President's Report
*Sharon Burd, President*

Sharon stated that she has vintage yearbooks to sell, and interested buyers can reach out to her at abingdonptapresident@gmail.com. She also thanked volunteers who helped out at Picture Day. Finally, apparently moon bounces are off-limits for Field Day due to APS liability concerns, so we are working with the PE team to sort that out.

## Principal's Report
*David Horak, Prinicpal*  
*Michele Michael, Assistant Principal*  
*Anne Oliveira, Assistant Principal*

- Mr. Horak is waiting to hear back from APS Safety and Security or Risk Management about bounce house approval.
- SOL's start in a couple of weeks and end on June 8. They are scored up to 600, and passing is 400 and above. Advanced proficiency is 500 and above. A student scoring between 375 and 399 will have the option to retake the test.
- There are many boxes of math and reading materials at school that we need volunteer help to sort and label. We will share more information about this opportunity.
- Next year the school will have six kindergarten classes, six first grade classes, six second grade classes, five third grade classes, five fourth grade classes and five fifth grade classes.
- There will be afternoons in June on early release days when rising kindergarteners can visit the school. Those are currently scheduled for June 7 and June 14 from 1:30 to 3:00. There may also be events closer to Columbia Pike.
- The Big Wave is still planned for the last day, but perhaps during the morning around 9:00 so that all of the students can participate, and the community as well.

## PTA Business

### 2023-2024 Officer Elections
*Lauren Shaub, Nominating Committee Chair*

The PTA held a voice vote electing the following PTA members as officers for the 2023-2024 school year:

- **President**: James Harlow
- **VP Educational Programs**: Tina Kelly
- **VP Fundraising**: Megan Miller
- **VP Community Relations**: Sara Kirschner
- **VP Events**: Meredith Greene
- **VP Staff Appreciation**: Ashley Farrugia
- **VP Communications**: Maggie Bush
- **Treasurer**: David DeBoer
- **Secretary**: Erin Cassidy

### Budget Amendments
*Dan Burd*

The PTA held a voice vote approving the following budget amendments to the 2022-2023 budget:

- Move **$1,250** from the "Laminator Film" line item to the "Field Day" line item.
- Move **$750** from the "School Play" line item to the "Field Day" line item.
- Move **$1,000** from the "Winter Wonderland" line item to the "After-School Enrichment Scholarships" line item.
- Move **$700** from the "Movie Nights" line item to a new "Fifth Grade Picnic" line item.
- Move **$300** from the "Movie Nights" line item to a new "Fifth Grade Field Trip" line item.

### Summer Budget
*Dan Burd*

The PTA held a voice vote approving the following summer budget, to be in effect between July 1, 2023 and the approval of the full-year budget in September 2023:

- 👋 Back-to-School Picnic: $1,000
- 🙏 Back-to-School Appreciation: $750  
- 🍅 Garden: $200  
- 📝 Office Supplies (paper, etc.): $200  
- 💦 Rising Kindergarten Playdates: $100  
- 📰 Newsletter: $100  
- 🖥️ Website: $50   
- 💲 Dues - Virginia PTA: $50   

## Adjournment

- The meeting was adjourned at 7:48 PM.
- The next meeting will be in autumn 2023, at a date, time and place to be announced later.

*/s/ Dan Burd, Secretary*