---
title: General Membership Meeting Minutes — September 21, 2023
summary: Minutes for the September 21, 2023 General Membership Meeting.
date: 2023-09-21T17:15:00-04:00
images: ["share/pta.png"]
booktoc: true
---

# General Membership Meeting Minutes — September 21, 2023

## Call to Order

The meeting was called to order at 5:15 pm with most participants in person while there were a few on Zoom.

Executive Committee members in attendance:

- James Harlow, President
- Megan Miller, VP for Fundraising
- Meredith Greene, VP for Events
- Tina Kelly, VP for Educational Programs
- Ashley Farrugia, VP for Staff Appreciation
- Sara Kirschner, VP for Community Relations
- Maggie Bush, VP for Communication
- David DeBoer, Treasurer
- Erin Cassidy, Secretary
- David Horak, Principal
- Anne Oliveira, Assistant Principal

## Intro and Welcome
*James Harlow and Board*

James welcomed everyone to the meeting and shared the goals of the year. He mentioned that last year the PTA had 84 paying members and on this day there were 134. The executive board members introduced themselves and their roles including needs from parents and volunteers.

## PTA Updates

### Staff Appreciation
*Ashley Farrugia*

In the fall, the PTA will provide either a breakfast or lunch for the parent-teacher conference days. There will be a lot of appreciation efforts and the PTA is looking for volunteers to help with events. Ashley asked members to complete the volunteer form.

### Events
*Meredith Greene*

Meredith discussed similar events as last year, including Trunk or Treat, Winter Wonderland, and International Night. She asked members to volunteer, especially the Trunk or Treat event that is coming up soon on Saturday, October 28 from 1-3pm.

### Fall Enrichment
*Tina Kelly*

Tina mentioned that fall after-school enrichment registration was open and that classes were filling up quickly. She also asked if anyone would be willing to help out with fall, winter and spring enrichment.

### Fall Fundraising
*Megan Miller*

Megan stated that the PTA will be doing Spirit Nights at local restaurants. The Dominos event was successful and she is looking to do others similar. Megan mentioned that on October 16 there will be a Spirit night at Silver Diner; volunteers are needed there to do various things such as be food runners, help sell spirit gear and other ways at the diner.

## Financial & Administrative Update
*James Harlow*

James brought up that as a PTA member, you are able to receive discounts at various locations and events. Every year there is an organizational structure that we have to update. [We updated the new org.](/organizational/2023-2024.pdf) Structure and will submit to the Virginia PTA to be compliant. The PTA members approved the motion for the organizational structure form with unanimous consent.

### Approval Of Minutes
*James Harlow*

The PTA approved the [minutes from the May 9 meeting](/minutes/2023-05-09) with unanimous consent.

### Summary of 2022-2023 Financial Audit
*Dan Burd*

Dan spoke on the process of [last year's audit](/financialreviews/2022-2023.pdf); there was a motion to adopt the audit report and was approved with unanimous consent.

### Treasurer's Report
*Dave DeBoer*

Dave said we are $1800 up already this year. He plans to have discussions with Field to Table to get more information on grants. It was approximately $800 for the teachers back to school lunch.

### 2023-2024 Proposed Budget
*James Harlow*

James discussed the numbers for the [2023-2024 proposed budget](/budget/2023-2024). Some questions that were brought up during this discussion are as follows:

"Are PTA funds used for field trips?" The answer is no they are not.

"Is there a way to coordinate and partner with the Village of Fairlington or other neighborhoods for involvement and help raising money?" The answer was that we can look into finding good connections.

The proposed budget was approved with unanimous consent.

## Principal's Report
*David Horak*

Mr. Horak mentioned that at this time there are 730 students enrolled at Abindgon. That includes 26 enrollments in the last 2 weeks. He said he looks forward to the school year and working closely with the PTA for a successful fun year. Mr. Horak is always willing to answer any questions there are.

## Adjournment

- The meeting was adjourned at 6:15 PM with a parade of kids entering the library. :)
- The next meeting date is to be determined, but in person.

*/s/ Erin Cassidy, Secretary*