 ---
title: General Membership Meeting Minutes — May 16, 2024
summary: Minutes for the May 16, 2024 General Membership Meeting.
date: 2024-05-16T17:30:00-04:00
images: ["share/pta.png"]
booktoc: true
---

## Call to Order

The hybrid zoom and in person meeting was called to order at 5:35 pm with a confirmed quorum.

Board members in attendance:

- James Harlow, President
- Meredith Greene, VP for Events
- Tina Kelly, VP for Educational Programs
- Ashley Farrugia, VP for Staff Appreciation
- Sara Kirschner, VP for Community Relations
- Maggie Bush, VP for Communication 
- David DeBoer, Treasurer
- Erin Cassidy, Secretary
- David Horak, Principal

## Approval of Minutes
*James Harlow*

James kicked off the meeting by bringing up the motion for the minutes to be approved from the last meeting on March 21, 2024 They were approved with unanimous consent.

## Financial Update (Treasurer's Report)
*David DeBoer*

Financial Situation is looking great. Current balance is at $45,000. We are 5K over our budgeted amount. 

Appointment of Audit Committee Members:

Dan Burd, Lauren Sanchez, and Roger Wortman

There was a motion to appoint these members and the motion was approved. 

## New Business
*James Harlow*

Budget Amendment to increase the Staff/Student Activities Grant Fund. The proposal is to reduce the events budget item by $2000 and increase staff/Student Activities Grant Fund by $2000. Examples are being used to help fund field day. Bounce houses are back!

There was a motion, second, and all were in favor to approve the proposal.

Opened nominations for the 2024-2025 Executive Board. Anyone is able to run for a position. There is one vacant position, VP for Community Relations.

Sara Kirschner motioned to nominate the following:

- James Harlow- President
- Erin Cassidy- Secretary
- Dave DeBoer- Treasurer
- Tina Kelly- VP for Enrichment
- Megan Miller- VP for Fundraising
- Meredith Greene- VP for Staff Appreciation
- Ashley Farrugia- VP for Events

Votes will occur at a meeting on June 12. 

## Fundraisers
*James Harlow on behalf of Megan Miller*

Upcoming event at the Silver Diner on Tuesday, May 28!

## Principals Report
*David Horak*

First SOL (Standards of Learning) test occurred today and kicked off a few weeks of more testing for grades 3-5. These tests essentially grade the school. Last year we had the 2nd highest Math growth out of the entire county. 

5th Grade Promotion is on June 13. It will start with a clap out, and then the 5th grade students will enter the ceremony. The Big Wave tradition will happen and plans have begun for the last day of school!

Most grade levels are having picnics for the end of the year. Teachers should have reached out or will be reaching out with details. 

Many thanks to everyone for the kindness shown to the Extended Day Staff given the recent situation. They are dealing with a lot of stress and emotions.

## Other Business
*James Harlow*

A PTA member mentioned that the buy a teacher lunch/snow cones was a great and easy way to show appreciation. Will keep doing that next year and have more opportunities to do so. 

Asking for donations for field trips will be something that we plan to utilize next year. Also looking into a way to pay for field trips online as many people don’t always have cash on hand. Apparently there are other schools who use something like that online. 

There are new school supply kits for next year. Using a new company called “Campus Survival Kits”. 

## Adjournment

- The meeting was adjourned at 6:23PM 
- The next meeting date is June 12. Time and location TBD. 

*/s/ Erin Cassidy, Secretary*