 ---
title: General Membership Meeting Minutes — June 12, 2024
summary: Minutes for the June 12, 2024 General Membership Meeting.
date: 2024-06-12T17:30:00-04:00
images: ["share/pta.png"]
booktoc: true
---

## Call to Order

The Zoom meeting was called to order at 5:31 pm with a confirmed quorum.

Board members in attendance:

- James Harlow, President
- Meredith Greene, VP for Events
- Megan Miller, VP for Fundraising
- Maggie Bush , VP for Communication 
- David Horak, Principal

## Approval of Minutes
*James Harlow*

James brought up the motion for the minutes to be approved from the last meeting on May 16, 2024. Minutes approved with unanimous consent.

## Election of 2024-2025 Officers
*James Harlow*

James informed members of the current slate of nominees for 2024-2025 PTA officers:

- James Harlow, President
- Erin Cassidy, Secretary
- Dave DeBoer, Treasurer
- Maggie Bush, VP for Communication
- Megan Miller, VP for Fundraising
- Tina Kelly, VP for Educational Activities
- Ashley Farrugia, VP for Events
- Meredith Greene, VP for Staff Appreciation

Motion from the floor to approve the slate of nominees by unanimous consent, seconded, and motion carried. Congratulations to our new officers.

## Summer Budget

*James Harlow*

The FY 2023-2024 budget period concludes on June 30, 2024. To cover PTA expenses before a full FY 2024-2025 budget can be considered and approved by general membership in September 2024, James discussed the proposed summer budget. 

| Budget Line Items            | In    | Out    |
| ---------------------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Memberships                  | $1400 | $620   |
| Fundraising                  | $4100 | $1400  |
| Staff Grants                 |       | $1000  |
| Community Relations          |       | $6900  |
| Staff Appreciation           |       | $1300  |
| Administrative/Miscellaneous |       | $200   |
| Totals                       | $5500 | $11420 |

The summer budget would expire on the earlier of September 30, 2024, or passage of the full FY 2024-2025 budget.

Motion from the floor to approve the proposed summer budget, seconded, and motion carried. 

## Principals Report

*David Horak & Michele Micael*

Mr. Micael started by thanking PTA for its support of the Abingdon assistant principals this year.

Mr. Horak discussed the growth in Abingdon’s student population that occurred during the 23-24 school year: 87 enrollments during the year from places like Afghanistan and Bolivia. 

Dan B. asked about the cause of the increase in Abingdon’s student population specifically. Mr. Horak did not know precisely what drove increases within the school boundary.

## Adjournment

- The meeting was adjourned at 6:10 PM 
- The next meeting date is TBD.

*/s/ James Harlow, President*