---
title: General Membership Meeting Minutes — January 18, 2024
summary: Minutes for the January 18, 2024 General Membership Meeting.
date: 2024-01-18T17:30:00-05:00
images: ["share/pta.png"]
booktoc: true
---

## Call to Order

The zoom meeting was called to order at 5:31 pm with a confirmed quorum.

Executive Committee members in attendance:

- James Harlow, President
- Megan Miller, VP for Fundraising
- Meredith Greene, VP for Events
- Tina Kelly, VP for Educational Programs
- Ashley Farrugia, VP for Staff Appreciation
- Sara Kirschner, VP for Community Relations
- Maggie Bush , VP for Communication 
- David DeBoer , Treasurer
- Erin Cassidy, Secretary
- David Horak, Principal
- Anne Oliveira, Vice Principal

## Approval of Minutes
*James Harlow* 

James kicked off the meeting by bringing up the motion for the minutes to be approved from the last meeting on November 16, 2023. They were approved with unanimous consent.

## Financial Update (Treasurer's Report)
*David DeBoer*

Our current balance is at $36,930. 3K below what we started with, but we will recoup all that plus more with fundraising. 

Grant program- 11 grants awarded with $4,252 spent for those. Odyssey of the Mind, Planters, seats, books and playground equipment are just some of those that were funded. 

## Fundraisers
*Megan Miller*

Bingo Night postponed due to snow! Future date TBD

Jan 30 - Taco Bamba Abingdon School fundraiser. You can dine in or carryout. We will get a portion of sales.

April 10- booking to have a fundraiser/basketball camp for school holiday. Hoping to host at Abingdon and Mr. Reed will give 20% of proceeds to the PTA.

Read-a-thon coming up in the spring!

## Book Fair Update
*Tina Kelly*

Book Fair is scheduled to take place in the Abingdon Library from February 12-16. Kay Houghton, local Fairlington realtor, has agreed to donate $250. There will be a 2.50 donation match for book bucks. 

## Upcoming Events
*Meredith Greene*

Winter Wonderland/Skate Night. 5pm-close: Nighthawk Pizza will give a portion of sales to the PTA. Use code: Cardinal, 6pm-7:30pm Ice Skating, Complimentary skating for students, siblings and staff. $5 for parents to skate

Also, all day on Friday, Feb 16, Nighthawk will donate 10% of the proceeds to the PTA. 

## Staff Appreciation
*Ashley Farrugia*

Planning to buy pizza for the staff on Friday, February 16 to participate in the fundraiser at Nighthawk.

Right before Christmas, volunteers delivered hot beverages and lotto tickets to staff. Very well received and appreciated by all. 

Ashley sent a survey to staff re: supplies they are needing as we approach the middle of the year. Will soon host a supply drive for staff upon receiving survey back. 

Ashley put in a plug for Girls on the Run needed more coaches for the Spring. They meet twice a week and leads up to a 5k in the Spring. 

## Guest Speaker
*Molly Fischer* 

Ms. Fischer joined the PTA call this month to discuss iPad usage for students. She reiterated that the iPads are intended to be a learning tool only for students while using their school owned devices. Always let the teacher know if there is something wrong with your student’s device to help solve later issues. 

She encouraged students to be responsible with their iPads. If you have further questions. Commonsensemedia.org can be a resource. 

## Principals Report
*David Horak*

Mr. Horak confirmed that school tomorrow, Friday, January 19 would be canceled due to snow. At 5pm the night before bad weather is to hit, the surrounding counties superintendents have a meeting to discuss if they plan to close school or not at their respective schools. 

All In Tutoring will start on January 30. Grades 3-5 had 270 kids that qualified, however not all students were offered this service. 9 staff members will be working with the selected students. There is also an option for virtual tutoring. 

March 1: Abingdon will be hosting Amazing Abingdon. All are invited to come to 2 different sessions to see what your students are doing at school. 

A note that Ms. Amy Burd received an APS all star award.

*Ashley noted that it was Principal Appreciation Week- Thanks for all you do Mr. Horak.*

## Final thoughts
*James Harlow*

James thanked Sarah for her help in organizing the MLK clean up Abingdon Day. And a big thank you to Sharon and Dan Burd for everything they did to help with clean up and organizing as well. 

## Adjournment

- The meeting was adjourned at 6:15 PM 
- The next meeting date is March 21 (?), in person. 

*/s/ Erin Cassidy, Secretary*